Datastore migration script (#190)
matrix-org/matrix-appservice-slack: docs/datastores.md

Datastores
==========

Version 1.0+ supports using Postgres as a storage backend instead of the
deprecated NeDB storage backend. 

NeDB End-of-life
--------

NeDB is a library which is used to store json documents locally to disk to give the bridge some local persistent state. 
All deployments of this bridge before `1.0` will have been using NeDB.

Starting with version `1.0`, NeDB will be deprecated and shouldn't be used for new installations. NeDB is
[unmaintained](https://github.com/matrix-org/matrix-appservice-bridge/issues/77) and doesn't scale well for the
needs of this bridge. Features such as puppeting will not be supported, however existing functionality will continue
to be maintained until support for NeDB is removed. 

> Version 1.0 of the bridge only supports postgres as an alternative datastore.

Reviewer: "Postgres" or "PostgreSQL" everywhere

Using PostgreSQL
----------------

You must first create a fresh database on an postgresql instance, create a user and grant the user
permission on the bridge:

```sql
CREATE DATABASE slack_bridge;
CREATE USER slackbridge_user WITH PASSWORD 'something very secret';
GRANT ALL PRIVILEGES ON DATABASE "slack" to slackbridge_user;
```

You should then update the config with details about the new database.

```yaml
db:
   engine: "postgres"
   connectionString: "postgresql://slackbridge_user:pass@localhost/slack_bridge?sslmode=require"
```

> (replacing pass with the password set above)

Reviewer: Can we use the same string for "something very secret" and "pass" - makes it clearer they correspond

Ensure that `dbdir` is not included in the config.

Migrating from an existing NeDB installation
--------------------------------------------

```bash
npm run build
node lib/scripts/migrateToPostgres.js "connectionString" "dbdir"
```

> where you should replace `connectionString` with the value above (such as

Reviewer: capital W

Datastores
==========

Version 1.0+ supports using Postgres as a storage backend instead of the

> legacy NeDB storage backend. If you wish to take advantage of this, please

Reviewer 2: Take out the `If you wish...` sentence: we immediately go into discussions about EOL, so it's important that people feel like they need to upgrade.

Also:
```suggestion
deprecated NeDB storage backend. If you wish to take advantage of this, please
```

read on.

> NeDB EOL

Reviewer 2: Spell out end of life please

--------

NeDB is a library which is used to store json documents locally to disk to give the bridge some local persistent state.
Until 1.0, it was the only way to store this information. 1.0 brings in support for PostgreSQL.

> After version `1.0`, NeDB will also be deprecated and shouldn't be used for new installations. NeDB is

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Starting with version `1.0`, NeDB will be deprecated and shouldn't be used for new installations. NeDB is
```

> unmaintained[1] and doesn't scale well for the needs of this bridge. Changes such as **puppeting** will

Reviewer 2: make the `[1]` a link please, or just have `unmaintained` be a link

> unmaintained[1] and doesn't scale well for the needs of this bridge. Changes such as **puppeting** will

Reviewer 2: I'm not sure why puppeting is bold here - it doesn't appear to be adding to the discussion? Also let's call them features.
```suggestion
unmaintained[1] and doesn't scale well for the needs of this bridge. Future features such as puppeting will
```

not be supported, but existing functionality will continue to be maintained until such a time that it
is removed. 

> Support for alternative datastores is something that may be included in the future, subject to demand.

Reviewer 2: Let's not get people's hopes up: they know they can open an issue if they want something else.

```suggestion
Version 1.0 of the bridge only supports postgres as an alternative datastore.
```

- [1] https://github.com/matrix-org/matrix-appservice-bridge/issues/77

Using postgresql
----------------

You must first create a fresh database on an postgresql instance, create a user and grant the user
permission on the bridge:

```sql
CREATE DATABASE slack_bridge;
CREATE USER slackbridge_user WITH PASSWORD 'something very secret';
GRANT ALL PRIVILEGES ON DATABASE "slack" to slackbridge_user;
```

You should then update the config with details about the new database.

```yaml
db:
   engine: "postgres"

>    connectionString: "postgresql://slackbridge_user:pass@localhost/slack_bridge"

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   connectionString: "postgresql://slackbridge_user:pass@localhost/slack_bridge?sslmode=require"
```

```

(replacing pass with the password set above)

Ensure that `dbdir` is not included in the config.

> Finally **if you are migrating from an existing NeDB install**, then you should run:

Reviewer 2: I'd recommend starting a new section here about migration instead of tacking on to the usage steps.

```bash

> npm run build # If you've not built the bridge already

Reviewer 2: Too many words make the thing look scary - let's just get people to run the command. The worst case is it takes a minute longer to get going.
```suggestion
npm run build 
```

node lib/scripts/migrateToPostgres.js "db.connectionString" "dbdir"
```

> where you should replace `connectionString` with the value above, and `dbdir` *if* you stored

Reviewer 2: including `db.` or not? An example would be good here.
